# Hospital Lab

### Which county has the most hospital beds per person (regardless of bed type)?
    New York county had the most hospital beds per person with 7.14261 beds per 1000 people

### Discuss how you obtained and cleaned the dataset. Make sure to explain what methods you used and why.
    
    I first a csv reader which converted the csv into a series of lists. I skipped the first row because I didn't need it. I then had a series of if statements. The first if statement said that if the 5th index (the one containing if the data was 500HAB, 1000HAB or 2000HAB) had 1000HAB, then just print the row. Then it said if the 5th index was 500HAB, print the row, but first multiple the 6th index (which represented the number of beds) and multiple that number by 2 as well as change the 5th index to 1000HAB. The last if statement did the same thing, instead changing the 6th index by dividing it by two. I wanted to do the same thing we did for making the first csv file by changing the printed statements into a new csv. However, I never got to finish that becasue I kept getting a NUL error and wasn't able to meet with you in time to figure it out. So instead, Lucca and I went through the entire CSV file and changed the numbers manually (doing the same thing the code would have done).

### Discuss your process of how you worked on this lab. Include details such as who you worked with, what methods you tried, what worked or didn’t work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Focus more on the programming side of the lab! Feel free to attach images, screenshots, pseudocode, etc to elaborate on your response.

    I began the lab in the breakout room. I copied the code that we had used for the hw assignment involving the weather. Most of it was pretty similar. I ran into some problems, like needing to add a _ to my id because id is already a variable and I needed to make one of my booleans "global." Lucca and I met with you just to clean out some of our bugs. Beside that though it was pretty straight forward, I had the code print data until it got an error and then I told it to stop. This error would already just be that there wasn't any more data to print. From there, i created a csv file. Lucca and I then manually cleaned the csv file after we both couldn't figure out how to clean the data. With the new clean data, I took a different approach. My approach was basically to combine the number of beds for the same county so that we got a number regardless of bed type. Now I would have a new set of lists and now I could go through them and see which county has the most number of beds per 1000 people. That became too complex though and I wasn't able to make the code work. The only way I could make it work was through extereme hard coding, so i wanted to try another method. Lucca and I talked about the pseudo code and ideas on how to solve it, but ended up being stuck. We called Ben, and he presented a different idea of looking at it. His idea was to make two ever changing directionaries, one that holds the maximum and one that holds the current county. This basic idea of two ever changing directionaries was the idea I needed to write the code. Every county would be compared to the current max at that point, if there were more beds in the current county, it would replace the maximum. If not the maximum would just replaced. So I made two dictionaries, holding only two values, the county name and the number of beds per 1000 people. My code started with an if statement, checking if the row the code was looking at had the same county as the current working dictionary, if so, the number of beds would be added to the current working dictionary. This would loop until the row came across a new county. Then my code would run a series of checks. First it would check if the number of beds in the current working dictionary was equal to the number of beds in the current maximum dictionary. If so, the name of the county and the number of beds would be stored in a separate dictionary (max_backup) which comes up later. The next check would be if the current working dictionary had more beds then the current maximum dictionary. If so, the values in the current working dictionary would replace the ones in the current maximum. After both those checks, not matter what (this took me a while to figure out), the current working dictionary gets cleared and is replaced the row that the reader is currently on. After my csv reader had gone through my entire csv, there was one check left. If the number of beds in the max_backup was the same as the current max, then I had a specific statement explaining how two counties had the same number of beds. If not, the code would simply print out what county had the most number of bests per 1000 people. This lab was definitly super difficult, but after getting through it I definetly understand how to make csv better and how to go through them. I wish I had been able to meet with you more, but I was able to get through it. 