# **Iris Lab Blog Post**

### Which species of Iris has the longest petals (on average)?

Through carefully data analysis I was able to determine that the species of Iris with the longest average petal length was Iris Virginica.

### Which species of Iris has the widest sepal (on average)?

Though I do not actually know what a sepal is (don't tell Mr. Lee), through rigorous data analysis I was able to determine that the species of Iris with the widest average sepal width was Iris Setosa

### Describe your process in finding these answers.

_To describe my process, I am going to divide my work into separate parts._
1. Using a method similar to the one I used in the homework "Reading Files", I decided to start by making dictionaries containing all the attributes of the three types of Iris. So I made three separate dictionaries, each containing four keys to represent the four attributes of each type of flower, the values for those four keys were empty lists that would hold the all the values for that given attribute (but we're not there yet)

2. Now that I have the three dictionaries, I needed a way to fill them with all the values of the attributes. To do so, I imported iris.csv and accessed the data set. I decided to use the reader that would organize the data into rows of lists. Now it was time to fill the dictionaries I had made. I started with an if statement that looked at the fourth index of each list; the if statement was looking for values of the 4th index that were "Iris-setosa". This if statement was used to separate the rows that were for the Iris Setosa species. Inside this if statement I went through each index in the list and took the attribute and put it in the right list in the dictionary I had made for that flower. I did this same if statement for "Iris-veriscolor" and "Iris-virginica". After these three if statements, I had three dictionaries that had four keys representing a list of values for that attribute. 

3. My next step was to make a function that gets the average of all the values in the list. This function allowed you to plug in a list and then it would return the sum of all the numbers in the list and then divide it by the number of values in the list (which gets you the average of the numbers in the list). I used this function to get the average petal length of all the flowers by plugging in the list that represented petal length for each flower.

4. I then used a series of greater than or less than if statements to determine which petal length was the greatest. I did this same process with sepal width. To make sure I was right, I also printed out the averages and made sure that my if statements were working correctly

5. I then went back through and commentted my work. I used commenting a time to check through all my code and make sure it was correct. I didn't use any sources, just my brain (and some help from Mr. Lee)