# **Meta-analysis discussion blog post**

I am a link to the [article](https://search-proquest-com.horacemann.idm.oclc.org/docview/2444039448/25E001D4C004D4EPQ/1?accountid=11478)

### What is your paper anaylizing (I added this question)

The goal of the paper I found was to "identify county characteristics associated with high versus low well-being among high-poverty counties" according to the paper itself. Basically they looked at the well being of the people in high poverty areas and determined if their well-being was high or low.

### What data did the scientists use?

The study used the Gallup-Sharecare Well-being index to determine the well-being of a county. They cross examined the well-being of these high poverty counties with 29 characterisitcs of a county to try and find which characterisitcs lead to a high well being in the population. Well-being data was available for 3091 counties in the USA, of those, 770 met our deinition there definiton of "high poverty." There definition of high poverty was that 20% of the population being in poverty. They looked at 770 high poverty counties in America. Doing this should allow them to indentify the county characterisitcs that were most strongly associated with high versus low well-being. Something to note, and something that the article does note, is that the had to use county data rather than city or neighborhood data because there wasn't enough data at that level. I highlight the problem with using county data when I talk about if I trust the findings.

### Do I trust the findings?

Their findings were that of the 770 high poverty counties, 72 had a composite well-being score in the top 20% of all counties in the U.S. 311 counties had a composite well-being score in the bottom 20% of all counties in the U.S. They found most improvished counties to be in the south of the united states, though those with high well-beings seemed to be in the East South Central region while those with low well-beings tended to be in the South Atlantic. The biggest finding was the six characterisitcs that affected the well-being of these counties the most. High well being areas had lower rates of preventable hospital stays, higher supply of primary care physicians, lower prevalence of smoking, more physical activity, higher amount of heavy drinkers and higher amount of residents with some form of a college education. The three biggest factors being heavy drinking, lower amounts of smokers and more primary care physicians. So do I trust the results? Kinda... The article makes a point early on saying how since this was only a cross-sectional study, this means that they can't actually assess whether or ot improving these characterisitcs would actually improve well-being in high-poverty counties. I think that is an important point made by the experiment. One of the findings of the study made me reread the study many **MANY** times, that high well-being communities have more heavy drinkers. While I have actually read studies looking at how increase primary care access and decreasing smoking helps people, I have never heard heavy drinking be assoicated with higher well-being. That itself makes me question the entire experiment. The other flaw I see is that the data isn't local enough. Counties are massive and characterisitcs of a county can be so different from one another. New York is a county that includes all 5 boroughs. From personal experience I know how different each borough is from one another making me think that this data may not be that good.

### How might "pubish or perish" have affected this study

To me, it doesn't feel like the researchers in the artile are that affected by "publish or perish." One thing that stands out to me is that the article opens up by talking about the strengths and weaknesses of the article itself and honestly exposes too big weaknesses that make me devalue the findings made by the article a lot. The tranparency of the article makes me believe that "publsih or perish" didn't affect the article that much. The main researchers, Anita Arora, works for Yale School of Medicine and seems like a pretty educated individual. While the findings of the paper are cool, the paper isn't trying to push some massive reform or change on the reader. It admits this saying, "As this was a cross-sectional study, we were unable to assess whether or not improving these characteristics would actually improve well-being in high-poverty counties." This is why I feel like the article wasn't affected a lot by "publish or perish." 