# **Postfix Calculater Lab**

### Calculate

We were told to get the average of all the rows in calculate_me.csv. I got 529.91 as the average of all the rows.

### Explaining Stack

To create a postfix calculater, it required me using something called a stack. A stack is an ordered list of numbers with limited access. We can only access the top of the stack. The last element put on top of the stack is the first element to be taken out. In a previous homework assignment we coded a stack class, so I copy pasted the code from that homework assignment and put it in my postfix calculater. The two key expressions you need to know about a stack is push and pop. Push allows you to add something to the top of the stack and pop takes the top item in the stack off. Now that I have explained what a stack is, I'll explain why it was so important for this lab. As my code went through each item in the specific row it was looking it, it was looking for expression ("+", "-", "x"). If it didn't find any it moved onto the next item in the row, but before it did, it pushed that number onto the stack. This was so important because when the code came across one of the expressions, it would pop the last two items in the stack and do whatever the expression told it to do. It would put that new number on top of the stack. When the for loop went through the entire row, there would only be one number on the stack and that would be the answer for that row.

### The process of the lab

The only person I really worked with for this lab was Lucca. All we did was brainstorm some psuedocode and thoughout about way to approach the lab, though we kinda went different direction in our approach so it didn't end up mattering too much. I first tried to do this without using a stack, clearly that wasn't the way to go. I thought I would just edit the list as I went through it, though I found out that while the idea was maybe possible, it was very very **VERY** difficult. I then thought about converting the row in calculate_me.cvs into a stack, though this didn't do anything for me and I realized pretty quickly that this was the wrong way to use the stack. Then while looking at the stack class, I was looking at my constructor and got the idea to use an empty stack and push and pop terms in and out of the stack. This was the way to go. The next problem I ran to was when subtracting the top two numbers of the stack, I was doing it in the wrong order. I looked at the numbers I was printing for each row and they didn't match the number I got when I did the math for the row by hand. I then printing each step in my code and found that I was subtracting in the wrong order. The last thing I did with my code was made an evaluate function. This basically just moved my code and made my work nicer and easier to understand and wasn't that difficult. I really learned how to use a stack to its full potential as I have always learned better through application. Sometimes when I am coding I am hesitate to use some of the new stuff we've learned because I have never used it before, but I have to continue to stay open minded when I am coding. I have also gotten so much better at using classes as of recently and this lab only added to my knowledge. I **love** that I actually know what a class is now, it makes everything super helpful and I felt like last year I didn't fully understand what classes were. Not only can I make a class now, but I know how to use it.